Goats were one of the first animals to be tamed by humans and were being herded 9,000 years ago.

Goat meat is the most consumed meat per capita worldwide

Goats can be taught their name and to come when called

The life span of a goat is about that of a dog

Goats have a gestation period (pregnancy) of five month and the average birth rate for goats is 2.2 kids per year.

Baby goats (kids) are standing and taking their first steps within minutes of being born.

Each kid has a unique call, and along with its scent, that is how its mother recognizes it from birth – not by sight.

Counter to the dominant stereotype about goats being willing to eat anything, they are actually very picky eaters. They have very sensitive lips, which they use to "mouth" things in search of clean and tasty food. They will often refuse to eat hay that has been walked on or lying around loose for a day.

Goats are herd animals and will become depressed if kept without any goat companions. So, it is unhealthy for a goat if a family just owns one as a pet.

Goats, being mountain animals, are very good at climbing; they’ve been known to climb to the tops of trees, or even dams!

Goats’ pupils (like many hooved animals) are rectangular. This gives them vision for 320 to 340 degrees (compared to humans with 160-210) around them without having to move and they are thought to have excellent night vision.

Goats are foragers, NOT grazers. It is actually unnatural to graze a goat on grass and increases the likelihood of them picking up harmful parasites. In their natural habitat, they roam mountaintops and reach up as high as possible to pick out choice bits of forage around them.

Goats have four “stomachs.” Their food moves first into the rumen (from which it is periodically regurgitated for more “cud chewing”), then to the reticulum, later to the omasum, and finally to the abomasum (which is most like a more sensitive human stomach).

Goats are burpers! This is due to the role of their rumen. The rumen, which in a mature goat holds four to five gallons of plant material, breaks down cellulose and acts as a fermentation vat. Of course, fermentation produces gas, and this gas escapes in the form of loud, healthy burps. Our goats can frequently be heard burping in the barn.

The earliest European settlers of America brought goats over on the Mayflower. By 1630, a Jamestown census listed goats as one of that colony’s most valuable possessions.

Goat popularity sured following the 1904 World’s Fair in St. Louis.

Goats don’t have teath on their upper jaw. Instead, they just have a strong dental pad. They do, however, have an incredibly mobile upper lip that helps them to sort through spiny, thorny twigs to find plants’ tender leaves.

Goat’s milk is the most popular kind of milk worldwide.  It’s naturally homogenized (meaning it doesn’t separate out into layers in its original state) and is easier to digest than cow’s milk

Among the many pets that populated the White House during Abraham Lincoln’s time in office were two goats, Nanny and Nanko. They were particularly beloved by Lincoln’s son, Tad, who even used them for chariot rides around the White House.

The incredibly soft and expensive cashmere is made of the downy winter undercoat produced by certain goats.

According to an Ethiopian legend, the stimulating properties of coffee were discovered when a goat herder found his flock frolicking with extra verve after consuming the red berries of the coffee shrub.

The scientific name for a domesticated goat is Capra aegagrus hircus. Goats are actually part of the bovine family and are closely related to cows and antelopes.

The world-famous “fainting goats” don’t truly faint when they get scared. Their muscles are temporarily paralyzed for roughly ten seconds when the goats feel frantic, and this results in them falling over.

Both male and female goats can have horns and beards. There are also some species of goats where neither the males nor the females have horns and beards.

Baby goats were called ‘kids’ first! Records indicate that the phrase was used to describe a young goat as early as 1200 AD. In contrast, the word ‘kid’ wasn’t used to refer to a human child until almost 1600 AD.

Lamancha goats have ears that are so small, you might think they were cut off! It is the only breed of goat to be developed in the US, and was first registered by the American Dairy Goat Association in 1958. They were first bred in Oregon by Mrs. Eula Fay Frey.

Mountain goats can weigh from 125 to 180 lbs. (57 to 82 kilograms) and grow from 49 to 70 inches (124 to 178 centimeters) long. Their black horns grow up to 8 to 12 inches (20 to 30 cm) long. They do not shed their horns, so a goat's age can be determined by counting the annual growth rings.

Mountain goats are found in the Rocky Mountains, typically in Alaska, western Montana, central Idaho, South Dakota, Colorado and Washington. The wide spread of their cloven hooves allows them to climb steep mountain sides with ease. They usually live in elevations of 3,281 to 16,404 feet (1,000 to 5,000 meters) above sea level.

Goats are very social creatures and live in groups called herds, which may contain as many as 20 goats in the wild, according to National Geographic. Mountain goats are most social during the winter and tend to go solo in the summer.

A male goat is called a buck or a billy, unless it is castrated, and then it is called a wether. Female goats, also called nannies or does, give birth to one or two offspring in the spring.

Within minutes of being born, kids are up and walking around. At three to four months the kids are weaned, and at 30 months they are ready to have kids of their own. Wild goats typically have a life span of 9 to 12 years.

Goats were the first animals to be used for milk by humans.

There are over 210 breeds of goats in the world.

The act of a goat giving birth is called “kidding.”

Goats have 24 molars and 8 incisors.

Male goats go through a period called a “rut” when they are ready to mate. This period coincides with the start of the breeding season. The “rut” is characterized by a decrease in appetite, obsessive interest in the does, fighting between bucks and most notable is a strong foul-smelly musky odor.

Lactating does that are kept in a pen with a musky buck may produce milk that taste “goaty” and can be offensive to humans.

Yearlings does (females) should be bred when they have reached 80 pounds of body weight or when they have reached 60-75% of the adult weight for their breed. They must also be in good body condition and health.

Chevon is the French word for goat. These are animals that are slaughtered near or shortly after weaning.

Goats are hollow-horned, bearded, ruminant mammals of the genus Capra and the species Hircus. They are raised for wool, milk, and meat in the U.S. Goats are also used to make gelatin, the manure is used for fertilizer, they are used for research models in biological studies, they are used to pull carts and for pack animals.

The natural life expectancy for goats is around 8 to 12 years and in some cases, goats can live over 15 years.

The age of puberty for female goats is between 7-10 months and 4-8 months in male goats.

A mature, healthy male buck can breed 20 to 40 does.

The traditional breeding season for goats in the U.S. is between late August and the early part of January, however some goats can breed out-of-season.

Goats do no like to get wet and prefer to seek shelter when it is raining.

Cabrito is the Spanish word for little goat (slaughtered one week or shortly after birth).

Goats deposits less fat externally and more fat internally (around the organs) compared to sheep and cattle.

Signs, of heat include tail wagging, mucous discharge, swollen vulva, bleating, mounting or being mounted by other goats etc.

The normal body temperature for goats is between 101.7 to 104.5 degrees.

The heart rate of goats is between 70 to 135 beats per minute, and the normal respiration rate for goats is 12 to 15 breaths per minute.

Goats are quite agile creatures and in some cases they can jump over 5 feet.

Depending on the breed, adult female goats can weigh between 22 to 300 pounds and adult males between 27 to 350 pounds of body weight.

Azalea bushes are poisonous to goats, and Vomiting in goats is almost always due to poisonous plants.

Before coins were used for money, goats were traded for silver because they were so valuable.

The pharaoh Cephranes thought, so much of his goats that he had 2,234 buried with him.

Wattles are those little tufts of hair that covers the skin that dangles from the throat of some goats. Wattles serve no function and are thought to be remnants of gill slits that mammals shared somewhere back down the evolutionary tree.

Goat meat is lower in fat and cholesterol compared to beef, pork, mutton and poultry.

12,000 year old paintings of goats have been found on the walls of caves in Europe.

Mahatma Gandhi consumed goat milk everyday for more than 30 years.

Carl Sandburg loved his goats so much that when Life Magazine (1938 issue) asked him to pose for a picture with his favorite dog he insisted the picture be taken with his goats.

Goat’s milk is naturally homogenized and it can be digested in less than 20 minutes where as cow’s milk can take almost all day.

Meat goat production is the fastest growing livestock industry in the U.S. in 2005.

The top ten states with the largest population of meat goats are Texas (1,010,000), Tennessee (98,000), Georgia (77,000), Oklahoma (65,000), Kentucky (63,500), North Carolina (52,200), California (50,000), South Carolina (41,000), Alabama (37,800) and Florida (36,000) as of 2005.

The top ten states with the largest goat dairy herds are Texas (30,000), California (30,000), Wisconsin (28,000), Iowa (13,000), New York (13,000), Philadelphia (13,000), Ohio (9,500), Oklahoma (9,000), Indiana (8,800) and Missouri (8,600) as of 2005.

Ethnic consumers are the backbone of the meat goat industry in the U.S. Demand for goat meat will continue to increase as the population in the U.S. becomes more ethnically diverse by consumers who traditionally eat goat meat.

To check for dehydration in goats, pull the skin that is over the shoulder area. If the skin snaps back quickly the animal is adequately hydrated. If the skin does not snap back quickly and remains erect the animals is dehydrated.

Approximately 1.5 million pounds of goat meat is imported into the U.S. every week from Australia and New Zealand because domestic production and processing systems in this country can not keep pace with demand.

Goats are able to consume 3 to 5% of their body weight in dry matter (perhaps more if the forage is highly digestible). To consume this amount of forages, goats must be pastured in an area with a large quantity of available vegetative forage. Goats will eat less when they are moved to poor quality pastures.

In many parts of the world, goats are economically valuable for a variety of purposes such as skins for leather and the pelts are used for making rugs and robes.

The early explorers used goat skins for water and wine bottles when they traveled.

During biblical times, goat skins were used for parchment for writing.

Goats do not have tear ducts.

Boer goats are considered the leading meat breed in the U.S. today. Mature males can weigh between 260 to 380 pounds and the females may weigh between 210- 300 pounds.

Colostrum is produced in the first milk of the doe and it contains high levels of immunoglobulins (antibodies), vitamin A, minerals, fat and energy. Newborn kids must ingest colostrum within the first 24 hours of life to help protect them against diseases.

China has the most goats (over 170 Million).

According to Roman history, on February 15th, young men would run around wearing only the skins of goats they sacrificed earlier and hit women with strips of goat skin, known as februa, to promote fertility. It is from these purification instruments that the month of February gets its name
